Welcome! My name is Carlos Lopez, I'm from Brownsville Texas, I'm studying Computer Science, and this is my Portfolio.


This class not only was my first exposure to college level writing but also one of my first classes to be taken far away from home. The academic environment was definitely different as well as the diversity in peoples' backgrounds, thoughts, opinions, and ideas. 

My two main goals for this class were to learn and to pass. The later shall be determined in a few weeks when I get my grades back, but regarding the former, I believe that was achieved. My teacher, Dr. Anne Fish certainly was an integral part of that process since she gave me a quality of feedback the type of which I don't think I'd ever been exposed to before. You see, each high school teacher has several hundreds of students (depending on the school) to take care of, and hence, they rarely have time to think about a paper beyond its surface level. Therefore, I was used to the type of feedback along the lines of "I don't like it. Write it again" and "I don't get it. Explain it better." Again, this is understandable, not only am I a sub-par writer (at best), but teachers have plenty of papers to read besides mine and consequently have no time to read it in depth. That's why I was surprised when my teacher not only told me what to change but also guided me on how to do it as well as providing different approaches on what to do. In general, I learned much more through this approach such as the effects (and overall understanding of) the passive voice.

My experience in this class gave me a little bit of insight into the research process via the trip it forced me to take to the Boston ICA exhibit. Thanks to improving technologies, nowadays the research process I've been exposed to just requires that I sit down in front of a computer and that I look through several articles and websites for the information I need. However, this activity forced me to stand up and actually go seek information in the form of art which provided a deeper insight as to what actual researchers do when they want to get more information about a certain topic. However, my perception of the writing process stayed relatively the same.

I'd say "Citizen" by Claudia Rankine was the hardest piece to read due to the heavy use of metaphors and dense amount of meaning packed into almost every sentence and anecdote. I sometimes had to read the same page more than once to truly grasp at the meaning of the story, and even then my peers and I would ed up with different interpretations. I overcame this by allocating the weekends to the studio assignments and readings since that's when I had the most time to read and re-read pages.

The visit to the Boston ICA was definitely the best assignment by far. I had never been to an art museum much less one that big with such odd architecture and aesthetics. I enjoyed it so much that I not only went to the "When Home Won't Let You Stay." exhibit but I also explored some of the other floors as well as Kusama's "Love Is Calling" and the room with the view to the ocean. I felt it was all pretty extravagant, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.

I'd like to further explore other research methods to see what sort of adventure it takes me on. I'm pretty sure there's other methods of gathering data and information besides visiting museums and Googling information and I'd love to learn what they are. By this reasoning of wanting to learn more new things, if given the choice, I don't think I'd reuse any of the topics or readings from Studio I in Studio II since there are plenty of other readings to go out and explore. I'm not quite sure what topics the Studio II class might explore, but if it's anything like this class, I'm excited to find out. 




			THAT ONE WORK





I chose this as my feature project since this assignment is what most forced me to analyze every single word that Claudia Rankine wrote down on her book "Citizen: An American Lyric." In total, I think this analysis only spans three pages of the whole book, but just with that amount of material, I was able to write this much and probably even more if given the chance. In addition, this paper taught me how to deconstruct dense sentences packed with meaning by slowing down and deconstructing them into more digestible, smaller sentences that tackle one idea at a time.

Carlos Lopez
Dr. Amy (Amanda) Fish
KHC ST111 Studio I
23 October 2019
The expectation of Rankine’s character in Citizen
Everybody defines their own personal character. We shape it through our actions and choices which in turn shape who we are. In “Citizen: An American Lyric” author Claudia Rankine presents her experience as an American citizen of color, and it is through her eyes that she shows us how despite the fact that she is a contributing member of the American society, she still faces discrimination and alienation due to the differences of her skin color and character from that of an expected white model citizen. However, Rankine shows us her resistance to this pressure to change by breaking the norm through her actions and even through her literary work. In this book, this is done mainly through the absence of the pronoun “I” which Rankine treats as a symbol for what society wants her to be since her true self crumbles in the face of expectation due to her identity not being able to fit in this symbolic first person.
“ ‘I’ is supposed to hold what is not there until it is. Then what iscomes apart the closer you are to it” (71). Rankine writes this quote to relate how she feels a disconnect between who society says she is supposed to be and who she actually feels she is. As a result, she avoids the use of the first person for two main reasons. By using the second and third person with the words “you” and “it” rather than the first (71), she allows the reader to feel the same alienation that she does daily. In addition, she simultaneously refuses to represent herself through the first person and hence does not limit herself to what society expects her to be. She then acknowledges that the first person is nothing more than a “symbol for something”(71). It is just a simplification of what a person might be. However, she also acknowledges that “ ‘I’ has so much power; it’s insane”(71). Despite the pronoun being just a word, it has the power to change peoples’ identities for fear that they might be alienated from the rest of the world. Rankine shows us that she constantly feels this societal pressure weighing her down through the use of a passerby who is “all gloved up, in a big coat, with fancy fur around the collar[…]saying, you should be scared, the first person can’t pull you together” (71). This description constructs a character who represents the elitist society in which Rankine lives, and that constantly tells her that she’s different and less than the rest of society. Clearly, the passerby does not say this out loud but through the stare she throws at Rankine, she can easily infer this just like how she can infer the rest of society subtly attacking her. The author more directly acknowledges this through the line right afterwards “you are reading minds, but did you try?”(71) referring to the fact that she senses the pressure of society all focused in the single intimidating look of this passerby, but it was so prominent and obvious to see that she recognized it without much effort. In addition, Rankine utters the first curse word in the whole book “Shit” (70) which further reveals her frustration at the thought of people constantly reminding her that she does not fit within “I.” This frustration is then explored when Rankine tells us the many ways in which she has tried to come to terms with this alienation. She has tried everything from writing poetry to express herself and liberate her frustration, to facing the facts head on to try and come to terms with them, and even by looking for answers in religion and sacred scriptures, or, in her own words, she has “Tried rhyme, tried truth, tried epistolary untruth, tried, and tried. You really did”(71).
However, these efforts to find an answer were not in vain, for she presents us to a solution for all this hostility. Rather than finding a perpetrator for this division and punishing them, she proposes to move on and encourage unity regardless of opinions, identity, or skin color. She proceeds to tell the reader to “never mind our unlikeness, you too have heard the noise in your voice”(71) to imply that the reader has also felt left out and alienated before for their own personal reasons. Therefore, she provides an answer to the reader by encouraging them to associate with her and empathize with how she feels. As a matter of fact, she then invites the reader to “…sit down. Sit here alongside” (71) and starts treating him/her as an equal, as a friend. At this point, Rankine stops using the word “you”, and addresses the reader more casually without declaring a subject. Notice the lack of a written subject in the quote “Drag that first person out of the social dream of history, then we’re kin.”(72). She acknowledges that there could be unity among people if we got rid of that first person in the singular sense and the division it carries with it, and starts speaking in terms of “we” and “our” since those terms provide unity and include everyone’s identity and character under one category. She does this until the reader’s views start differing from Rankine’s. “Maybe you don’t agree. Maybe you don’t think so”(72). It’s at this point that Rankine goes back to talking to the reader formally and actually writing down the subject “you” when addressing him. Rankine starts seeing the difference between herself and the reader in that the reader may think that nothing wrong was done in the past and that society is already pretty unified. “Maybe you are right, you don’t really have anything to confess”(72). However, if that is the case, why is there a disconnect between Rankine and the reader? “Why are you standing?”(72)
Even then, despite the differences in opinions between Rankine and the reader, Rankine still desires to be united with her fellow reader and, by extension, society. Remember, Rankine, much like any other person out there, does not want to live alone and excluded, but she also does not want to give up what makes her the person she is. Still, she takes a step back, apologizes, and talks directly to the actual reader and acknowledges that she might be wrong about the person reading the book, and that she’s addressing the previous quotes to an elite, high-class reader that she imagined could have been reading her book. She “was creating a life study of a monumental first person, a Brahmin first person”(73). Despite that, she wants to remain united even if she does not agree with the opinions of her fellow citizens. Therefore, if her actual reader is that type of Brahmin person and persists that nothing wrong was done in the past and that society is already pretty unified, then she still invites him/her to “Join me down here in nowhere…sit down and pull together” (73). Rankine still believes that that person’s vision is occluded. They have a false perception of reality. “Yours is a strange dream, a strange reverie”(73), but she acknowledges that their perception is equally valid as her own perception since both of them are based on the opinions of a single person. “No, it’s a strange beach; each body is a strange beach”(73) However, Rankine hopes that despite their different views on society, all people will be able to connect their beaches through empathizing with each other and realizing they are all human beings that feel, for “if you let in the excess emotion, you will recall the Atlantic Ocean breaking on our heads”(73).
Claudia Rankine is a victim of alienation and discrimination due to her race, an outcast of society if you will. However, she does not want to give up her uniqueness and identity to fit within what others consider normal, what “I” and the idea of the first person represents. Instead, she wants to be accepted for who she is and be part of a unified community where despite people not having the same identities, ideas, skin color, or opinions, they can all coexist together as part of a collective of “Citizen[s].”
Works Cited
Rankine, Claudia. Citizen: An American Lyric. Penguin, 2015.