Is
this model capable of addressing the foundational wrongs upon which settler
colonial states, such as the United States and Canada, were built? 

pg 1


				I. BECOMING GROUNDED (checking where we at)


Mentions how america is based on fucking over minorities...


In order to consider meaningful redress for the large-scale historical wrongs
associated with this process, we have to be willing to come to grips with the
foundational and on-going nature of the colonization of Indigenous lands and
peoples, the functions of enslaved African labor in the settlers' early efforts to
consolidate and profit from occupied lands, the ways in which the settler class
maintained its hegemony in the wake of the abolition of chattel slavery, and the
strategies subsequently utilized to recruit, exploit, and maintain a disposable labor
force consisting largely of migrants of color


Now peeps are broke:


The history and on-going dynamics of settler colonialism give us 40 million
Americans living in poverty in 2017,8 a number that encompasses more than onequarter of all Black, Latinx, and American Indian or Alaska Native residents, as
compared to about one tenth of White residents.1


How fix?

 Acknowledgement,
apologies, and redress for large-scale injustices committed by states can help heal
the wounds that debilitate affected communities, facilitating their recovery and


Here's an example of a bru, apologizing and giving money for the better:

y.39
Harper announced, "Today, we recognize that this policy of assimilation was
wrong, has caused great harm and has no place in our country.... The government
of Canada sincerely apologizes and asks the forgiveness of the Aboriginal peoples
of this country for failing them so profoundly." 0 His statement was followed by
an apology on behalf of the Liberal party for its role in maintaining the residential
schools.4
' To a cheering audience, the Chief of the Assembly of First Nations, Phil
Fontaine, responded, "Never again will we be the 'Indian problem' ..... Today is
the result of the righteousness of our struggle." 42 The apology, and a preceding
settlement involving symbolic monetary redress to residential school survivors,43
was clearly meaningful to many individuals. As Mary Simon, an Inuit leader,
observed, "Let us not be lulled into believing that when the sun rises tomorrow,
the pain and scars will be gone. They won't. But a new day has dawned."  

pg 19




		II. GUIDING PRINCIPLES

How fix guide:

dignity, power,
and truth.


D: we got fucked and we want justice and a better future for our generations

Dignity based laws?

The concept is rooted in a framework of respect for human life in the
dynamic, organic context of community, culture, history, and identity. As legal
scholar Oscar Schacter noted, "nothing is so clearly violative of the dignity of
persons as treatment that demeans or humiliates them. This includes not only
attacks on personal beliefs and ways of life but also attacks on the groups and
communities with which individuals are affiliated."5 

pg 21


P=we want the power to maintain our identities and keep our communities alive

(You're not free if you have to become one of them for it)
Assimilation is also illusory because its offer of access to some benefits of
settler society is contingent on relinquishing our independent identities, cultures,
histories, and worldviews.


For these and related reasons, the emerging bodies of international law
addressing racial discrimination and Indigenous rights have come to recognize that
incorporation into the dominant society is not sufficient to protect the rights of
racially subordinated peoples. Instead, they explicitly prohibit coercive
assimilation and articulate the right of peoples to maintain their distinct identities,
traditions, and cultures, as well as their social, political and economic structures.




Real empowerment does not require acceptance by the institutions of the
dominant society; it entails exercise of the right to self-determination. As
summarized by Robert Williams, self-determination "encompass[es] the idea that
human beings, individually and as groups, should be in control of their own
destiny, and that systems of government should be devised accordingly, and not
imposed upon them by alien domination."



T= We can't move forward if we don't acknowledge the lies of the present and past


Example of UN ending colonization but just limiting it instead.



				III. THINKING BEYOND STATES

I ain't saying let's disband all state. All i'm saying is there's probably a more efficient way to manage peeps

Nations for example are based on what people associate to rather than the boundaries on land set by years of war.


				IV. THE POTENTIAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW

International law is needed to enforce the laws of stopping genocide and doing reparations


Two points are particularly noteworthy. First, international law clearly
recognizes that the nature of the wrong dictates the appropriate remedy." 8 The
perpetrator does not get to decide the form or extent of the remedy." 9 Second,
restitution is the first and primary goal of remedies and it is intended, whenever
possible, to restore the victim to the situation as it existed prior to violations of
international law at issue.120 Restitution can include "restoration of liberty,
enjoyment of human rights, identity, family life and citizenship, return to one's
place of residence, restoration of employment and return of property.


				V. REALITY CHECK

Victims get discouraged because they think that what they ask for is unrealistic, but truth is that it's the bare minimum according to the law. Evven the law from centuries ago prohibited these injustices among "civilized" states, and it is due to this disparity of perceived  civilization in different races that the Europeans justified in commiting the unjust acts they did.

				VI. MOVING FORWARD

So just to clarify, people ain't in a disadvantage because of their race, religion, gender, etc.., but because xenophobes, rascits, etc... were in power a while ago.

Even if we can't fix everything right away, we should at least keep track of the stories and events that happened during these injustices to get a reference point for our wrongs. this way remediation will come gradually as a process rather than a single event.



keyword = "remediate"

